#S3


If you enable Versioning with MFA Delete on your Amazon S3 bucket, 
two forms of authentication are required to permanently delete a version
 of an object: your AWS account credentials and a valid six-digit code 
 and serial number from an authentication device in your physical possession.
 
 
Amazon AWS locks down unauthorized access. Just because the original version permitted access
 does not mean future versions will; you must explicitly enable access to each version 
 you upload, either via the console or programmatically.


## AWS Storage Gateway (non-S3, but related to S3)

AWS Storage Gateway connects an on-premises software appliance with cloud-based storage
 to provide seamless integration with data security features between your on-premises IT 
 environment and the AWS storage infrastructure. You can use the service to store data in
  the AWS Cloud for scalable and cost-effective storage that helps maintain data security.

### AWS Storage Gateway Types
* File gateway
  
  You can think of a file gateway as a file system mount on S3. 
  Supported protocols are: NFS and SMB  
  
* Volume gateway 
   
  * **Cached volumes** – You store your data in Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) and retain 
  a copy of frequently accessed data subsets locally. Cached volumes offer a substantial cost savings 
  on primary storage and minimize the need to scale your storage on-premises. You also retain low-latency 
  access to your frequently accessed data.
  
  * **Stored volumes** – If you need low-latency access to your entire dataset, first configure your
   on-premises gateway to store all your data locally. Then asynchronously back up point-in-time snapshots
    of this data to Amazon S3. This configuration provides durable and inexpensive offsite backups that you 
    can recover to your local data center or Amazon EC2. For example, if you need replacement capacity for 
    disaster recovery, you can recover the backups to Amazon EC2.
  
* Tape gateway
    
  Archive backup data in Amazon Glacier. 

## Protecting Data

### S3 options to for encrypting
* You can protect data in transit by using SSL or by _using client-side encryption_.
* Server-side encryption or _by using client-side encryption_

### Server-Side Encryption

#### Server-side encryption with S3-managed keys

Encrypt everything with aws:kms AES-256 encoded key. Applied to all objects

x-amz-server-side-encryption

#### Server-side encryption with KMS-managed keys

If you need to manage access for specific users or log Actions using CLoudTrail use this type. 

x-amz-server-side-encryption should not be aws-kms

x-amz-server-side-encryption-aws-kms-key-id you can specify specific key id in KMS **if you want**

#### Server-side encryption with customer provided key

HTTPS only


| Name	|Description|
|---|---|
|x-amz-server-side​-encryption​-customer-algorithm|	Use this header to specify the encryption algorithm. The header value must be "AES256".|
|x-amz-server-side​-encryption​-customer-key	|Use this header to provide the 256-bit, base64-encoded encryption key for Amazon S3 to use to encrypt or decrypt your data.|
|x-amz-server-side​-encryption​-customer-key-MD5	|Use this header to provide the base64-encoded 128-bit MD5 digest of the encryption key according to RFC 1321. Amazon S3 uses this header for a message integrity check to ensure the encryption key was transmitted without error.|

## Event notifications

Supported 3 destinations: 
* SNS
* SQS
* Lambda

Supported 3 types of events: 
* Object created
* Version removal
* S3 RRS object lost

##  Static web hosting 

Minimal requirement to make static web hosting : 
* Select the “Make Public” permission for your bucket’s objects
* Enable static website hosting in your S3 bucket properties
* Upload an index document to your S3 bucket

## Limits 

### Unsorted limits 
One account up to 100 buckets. Can be increased via support.

Bucket ownership is not transferable

### Bucket name requirements 
* Length: 3 < bucketName < 63
* Lower-case characters, numbers, periods(`.`), and dashes(`-`).
* Cannot contain underscore
* Cannot contain `--` or `..`
* Cannot contain IPs(`198.168.23.34`)
* Be unique across all regions
## Errors 

If you get '409 Conflict' error. ---> BucketAlreadyExists

### Response Error

* An XML error document as the response body
* Content-Type: application/xml
* An appropriate 3xx, 4xx, or 5xx HTTP status code



## AWS Glacier


Expedited retrievals allow you to quickly access your data when occasional
 urgent requests for a subset of archives are required and data 
accessed using Expedited retrievals are typically made available within 1 – 5 minutes.


#### URL 

`https://glacier.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/111122223333/vaults/examplevault`

### Vault

You can store an unlimited number of archives in a vault.

An AWS account can create up to 1,000 vaults per region. 

You can delete a vault only if there are no archives in the vault

Amazon Glacier prepares an inventory for each vault periodically, every 24 hours.
Because the inventory might not reflect the latest information, Amazon Glacier ensures 
the vault is indeed empty by checking if there were any write operations since the last vault inventory.

Amazon Glacier updates the vault inventory approximately once a day, starting on 
the day the first archive is uploaded to the vault. A vault inventory must exist
for you to be able to download it

Given the asynchronous nature of the job, you can use SNS notifications to notify you when 
the job completes. You can specify an Amazon SNS topic for each individual job request or
 configure your vault to send a notification when specific vault events occur.

#### Vault Lock

Amazon Glacier Vault Lock allows you to easily deploy and enforce compliance controls 
for individual Amazon Glacier vaults with a vault lock policy. You can specify controls such
 as “write once read many” (WORM) in a vault lock policy and lock the policy from future edits. 
 Once locked, the policy can no longer be changed.

### Archive
An archive is any object, such as a photo, video, or document, that 
you store in a vault. It is a base unit of storage in Amazon Glacier. 
Each archive has a unique ID and an optional description. 

Archive IDs are 138 bytes long. 

### Job

Amazon Glacier jobs can perform a select query on an archive, retrieve an archive, 
or get an inventory of a vault. When performing a query on an archive, you initiate 
a job providing a SQL query and list of Amazon Glacier archive objects. Amazon Glacier 
Select runs the query in place and writes the output results to Amazon S3.


